feat: initial portal docs + minor cleanups (#1469)
AztecProtocol/aztec-packages: docs/docs/dev_docs/contracts/portals/data_structures.md

---
title: Data Structures
---

The `DataStructures` are structs that we are using throughout the message infrastructure and registry.

**Links**: [Implementation](https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages/blob/master/l1-contracts/src/core/libraries/DataStructures.sol).

## `Entry`

> An entry for the messageboxes multi-sets. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An entry for the message box (the entry acts like a multi-set, enabling multiple entries for the same message)
```

Author: The entry does not act like a multiset, it is an entry in a multisit.

```solidity title="DataStructures.sol"
  struct Entry {
    uint64 fee;
    uint32 count;
    uint32 version;
    uint32 deadline;
  }
```

| Name           | Type    | Description |
| -------------- | ------- | ----------- |

> | `fee`          | `uint64` | The fee provided to sequencer for including in the inbox. 0 if Outbox (as not applicable). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `fee`          | `uint64` | The fee provided to the sequencer for including the message in the inbox. 0 if Outbox (as it is not applicable). |
```

| `count`        | `uint32` | The occurrence of the entry in the dataset |
| `version`      | `uint32` | The version of the entry |
| `deadline`     | `uint32` | The consumption deadline of the message. |

## `L1Actor`

> An entity on L1, specifying the address and the chainid for the entity. Used when specifying sender/recipient with an entity that is on L1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An entity on L1, specifying the address and the chainId for the entity. Used when specifying sender/recipient with an entity that is on L1.
```

Author: Unsure what exactly we want here, often it is just denoted `chainid` in solidity docs etc, but I prefer `chainId`.

```solidity title="DataStructures.sol"
  struct L1Actor {
    address actor;
    uint256 chainId;
  }
```

| Name           | Type    | Description |
| -------------- | ------- | ----------- |

> | `actor`          | `address` | The ethereum address of the actor |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `actor`          | `address` | The L1 address of the actor |
```

Reviewer: maybe we should be consistent with using either L1 or ethereum everywhere

Author: An `ethereum address` is something specific, not any `l1 address` allowed for format etc, like you can insert a bitcoin address here. But that is being pedantic, so maybe better just with L1 consistently. Will take a look over it and see how often we are using ethereum, think it might just be here.

| `chainId`        | `uint256` | The chainId of the actor. Defines the blockchain that the actor lives on. |

## `L2Actor`

> An entity on L2, specifying the address and the chainid for the entity. Used when specifying sender/recipient with an entity that is on L2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An entity on L2, specifying the address and the chainId for the entity. Used when specifying sender/recipient with an entity that is on L2.
```

Author: Oh, chainid should be replaces by version here actually.

```solidity title="DataStructures.sol"
  struct L2Actor {
    bytes32 actor;
    uint256 version;
  }
```

| Name           | Type    | Description |
| -------------- | ------- | ----------- |
| `actor`          | `bytes32` | The aztec address of the actor. |

> | `version`        | `uint256` | The version of the actor. Defines the rollup that the actor lives on. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `version`        | `uint256` | The version of Aztec that the actor lives on. |
```

Version of actor reads weirdly to me. Also probably lesser jargon to use "Aztec" instead of "rollup"

## `L1ToL2Message`

A message that is sent from L1 to L2.

```solidity title="DataStructures.sol"
  struct L1ToL2Msg {
    L1Actor sender;
    L2Actor recipient;
    bytes32 content;
    bytes32 secretHash;
    uint32 deadline;
    uint64 fee;
  }
```

| Name           | Type    | Description |
| -------------- | ------- | ----------- |
| `sender`          | `L1Actor` | The actor on L1 that is sending the message. |

> | `recipient`        | `L2Actor` | The actor on L2 that is to receive the message. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `recipient`        | `L2Actor` | The actor on L2 that should receive the message. |
```

| `content`        | `field (~254 bits)` | The field element containing the content to be sent to L2. |

> | `secretHash`        | `field (~254 bits)` | The hash of a secret pre-image that must be known to consume the message on L2. |

Reviewer: I know you explained in your other PR, but should we explain how to do a sha256 hash to a field ?

Author: The `secretHash` is not a sha256 to field. But will add the note on how to compute it.
```
Use the [`computeMessageSecretHash`](https://github.com/AztecProtocol/aztec-packages/blob/master/yarn-project/aztec.js/src/utils/secrets.ts) to compute it from a secret.
```
